coming up in view cast amazing
Vanderbilt research you have to see to
believe how this robot let's paraplegics
walk and how winning a football game
could influence who wins the presidency
hi I'm Amy wolf with view cast it's a
traumatic diagnosis you're paralyzed
from the waist down after a car wreck or
other injury some 270,000 people in the
united states have spinal cord injuries
and more than 150,000 are paraplegics
but now thanks to a wearable robot
developed by vanderbilt university
researchers some paraplegics can walk
again bewks barb Kramer takes us on one
man's emotional journey this is not
where brian schaefer ever thought he
would be needing extra time and effort
just to get out of his pickup truck but
it's the only way for Brian to get
around now just a few years ago Brian
was playing football in high school and
college enjoying life with his wife
Kendra and their four children but
Christmas night 2010 life changed
drastically coming over and over pass I
hit some ice and flip my my beer I just
knew that when I try to get out of the
vehicle all I could do was drag myself
out backwards I knew that I couldn't
stand up or move my legs at that point I
knew something was pretty serious that
happened the complete spinal cord injury
left Brian paralyzed from the waist down
but now Brian is working with Vanderbilt
researchers led by Michael Goldfarb on a
new robotic device called an exoskeleton
it attaches above Brian's hips and to
his legs everything feels pretty good
one two three Erica electric motors at
both hip joints and both knee joints are
powered by small lithium batteries and
controlled by microcomputers the micro
computers talk to each other and
basically tell the legs to move forward
and they command that through the motors
in life it's Brian's first time up for a
few weeks the crutches help only with
stability to activate movement Brian
uses hip placement it's a pretty easy
movement you know you just lean him
leaning to the left a little put your
weight into the right it's going to take
another step and with even more practice
Brian should be able to make advanced
moves like this patient there we go
along with social and psychological
benefits dr. Goldfarb says the
exoskeleton helps the body one of the
things this does is is give just be able
to walk around for 30 minutes a day
addresses a lot of these secondary
issues bone density reduces muscle
spasticity improves skin conditions
improved peripheral circulation goldfarb
says the leg segway will not replace a
wheelchair it will just take disabled
people wear a wheelchair can't go
researchers have signed an agreement
with Parker Hannifin to commercially
produce the device and hope to have it
available to the public in 2014 let me
just being able to actually stand up
after four or five six months of not
standing up that's that's wonderful
brian says the exoskeleton is
comfortable and doesn't tire him at all
the device fits in a wheelchair and
snaps apart for easy transportation
for Brian he is just ready to walk again
yes I see it I see myself walking one
day
is I'd like to be able to have these
legs on you no get out of my vehicle or
get out of my chair and be able to stand
up against the fence and watch watch my
son play ball I would love to do that
I'd love to do that for view cast barb
Kramer reporting this exoskeleton is the
only device of its kind with electrical
stimulation for some patients this could
help stroke victims relearn how to use
their muscles to walk the device is
funded through a grant from the National
Institutes of Health and tested by the
Shepherd rehab hospital
they're going to toss it to tape running
right he'll cut upfield gets to the 20
get to the 15 gifts to the tan gets to
the corner gets to the end zone
touchdown Commodores to receivers to the
length they fake with play-action now
throwing back to the left all by himself
as Chris pantera and he'll get the end
zone touchdown Commodore this weekend we
welcome over four thousand alumni from
12 undergraduate reunion classes over
the past year these alumni have
supported Vanderbilt by making gifts in
honor of their reunion and the grand
total drumroll please thank you
vanderbilt alumni i think it's a real
testament to vanderbilt amazing success
on the athletic field on the campus and
in the community in our great nation and
we couldn't be happier couldn't be
happier in multiple and he'll keith
rogers wings
play action rolling right as Rogers
buying time looking to the end zone
Chris Boyd touchdown
Oh
since we're deep in football season
right now and in the middle of elected
our next president here's a double dip
for you what influence do you think a
winning sports team has on who wins an
election a vertical political economist
who studies voter behavior find
something seemingly irrelevant to
politics like a successful college
football or basketball team does impact
the ballot box Cecilia MO and her
co-authors studied whether college
football and basketball games played the
week of elections affected the choices
voters made they found a win by the
local college team raised the number of
votes going to the incumbent by about
one and a half to three percentage
points there's a great article on this
on slate com search Cecilia MO and
football review cast I'm Amy wolf
you